notesfile









Design Intent Summary
Core Philosophy:
Build components that follow simple, recognizable patterns from Vue/Nuxt best practices—prioritizing function, idiomatic patterns, then clarity. Focus on craftsmanship and learning, not complexity or invention.
Architectural Goals:

Single responsibility: Each component does one thing well
Proper encapsulation: Clear boundaries, minimal coupling
Flexible for unknowns: Works for current demo needs and future use cases we can't predict yet
State management: Pinia stores handle API calls to Nuxt endpoints, state persists as users navigate

Styling Strategy:

Semantic state over visual coupling: Components expose their state (unavailable, clickable, in-flight) via props and data-* attributes, not hardcoded styles
Design-system ready: Using semantic HTML and state attributes means any future styling approach (CSS, Tailwind utilities, component libraries like Vuetify/PrimeVue/Nuxt UI) can hook in without rewriting component logic
Current approach: Stub visual states with simple Tailwind classes for smoke testing, but keep styling separate from logic so designers can replace it later without touching component structure

Right Now:
Focus purely on component tree design, responsibility boundaries, and data flow patterns. Get the factoring right. Styling is temporary scaffolding.








what are your small componenbts now that Button is working so well?

<a> used some places for whole tab navigation
<Navigate> and <NavigateButton> which are just a light wrapper on NuxtLink, with states and styling
<Button> which is both simple and powerful

ok, stuff to check and do and clean up still with small components:

look at and clean up Navigate and NavigateButton
have one that you style with link or not, just like Button does
reproduce that error where when you float over a navigate button, the text goes from white to light something, rather than the button getting lighter
so maybe jsut call this Link

and another thing you need to do in here while you're checking the appearance and states of links adn buttons is have the dangerous visual appearance, the red button for destructive actions






make sure you type things to bring up the right mobile keyboard!
you've been using number pad, but there's also email and url!

<input type="tel" />    <!-- triggers number pad -->
<input type="email" />  <!-- triggers email keyboard -->
<input type="url" />    <!-- triggers URL keyboard with .com key -->





forms
things you'll figure out as you code longer and more complex forms
how does a form work when there are multiple steps?
does icarus have form-wide validation functions, like validateSomeForm(), which both the vue component and api handler can use?



are you going to use <form @submit.prevent="">?
no - don't use <form> element at all. traditional form behavior (even with prevent) means:
- browser adds POST to history
- "Confirm form resubmission?" dialog if user clicks back
- browser "helps" with autocomplete in ways you don't want
instead, the SPA pattern:
- @keyup.enter="refButton.click()" on inputs
- Button.vue handles state and calls fetchWorker
- no browser form state = no resubmission dialog, clean history
this is what Button.vue is designed for





are you going to use <input enterkeyhint="">?
yes - mobile UX enhancement, changes the label on keyboard's Enter key:
<input enterkeyhint="search" />  <!-- key shows "Search" -->
<input enterkeyhint="send" />    <!-- key shows "Send" -->
<input enterkeyhint="next" />    <!-- key shows "Next" (multi-step form) -->
<input enterkeyhint="done" />    <!-- key shows "Done" (final field) -->
<input enterkeyhint="go" />      <!-- key shows "Go" -->
doesn't change functionality, just the visual label. nice UX polish for mobile













visually simple--like you drew it all with a thick crayon
- flat--as opposed to shadows, bubbles, shine, any z dimensional cues, accomplish things without those!
- completely communicative--the user knows where the focus is, which fields are valid, what the button can do and is doing
- does not depend upon color--you could use it all with just gray and pink, for instance
- understandably common--boxes have a border all the way around so everyone's mom understands they're a box. unlike Android in the 20teens!

oh wait--if you accomplish these goals with chat and tailwind, does that mean you don't use a prepackaged component library? or you do, but just to get the slider-style checkbox, or something? don't those comonent libraries already come with a password box? so maybe you shouldn't be doing this here yourself, at all!

figure out how you want things to work, then from that make choices about tools and factoring
imagine this step in a form is jsut a box wher the user types their email
they mistakingly type "name.example.com", so, not valid
should the Next button not be clickable until they fix it?
should there be text below that says "That's not a valid email address"?
should that text appear while they're typing? after they blur the box? after they hit submit?
how does that work when you can place the Submit button on the phone keyboard, so they don't have to return focus to the page at all?

if you wire it up so the submit button isn't even clickable until the form contains valid looking information, does that interrupt the user's flow?
(the 1998 way, before client-side validation, is they press submit, and then get errors they have to scroll up to fix, which as an extreme, is also bad
but also also bad is the most modern way, where the user is pecking a nonworking submit button because they haven't correctly typed their email in a box above they're no longer looking at)

should the boxes animate "No" left and right like they do on macOS? is this clever or annoying?
should this be like typeform, a whole bunch of different steps, or like the early web, a long form you spend time getting right before submitting?

you know you want to keep forms short enough that even with the keyboard up, there's no scrolling at all--and this means really, really short--you're already seeing scrolling with navigation links at the top when there's a password box on the page, so the keyboard is taller because there are password manager controls above it!
but you also know you don't want to make the thing a million step conversation the user feels lost in, like when will it end, likek typeform

also remember, most users are going to be able to fill out these forms, no problem
so don't choose a design that gets in their way, or is distracting, or just even a little weird, as they're doing that!

maybe dashed means undone, so you go to the form and all the boxes and teh button are dashed
and then as you complete things, making them valid, they become solid
until at last the button is also solid
ok so then how do you show where the focus is?
maybe with the accent color

the dashed border looks weird and bad in firefox, maybe try a dotted border?
remember to deploy to see what this looks like on mobile, both ios and android!

another thing to do here now is style a button alongside these boxes
and work on the button's animated state, which probably has an ellipsis that blinks ., .., ...
and maybe also a gently swimming wallpaper background--you like this because it's calm, immediate, unique, and does not revert (like progress that shrinks) nor appear possibly endless (like all the spinners)

all the text the user types should be monospace, like Noto Sans Mono
when they write a post, even, it's mono
when it's rendered on the page it's in the brand font
hook that up for these controls

do these hold a line of status or help or error text beneath them
like "Got that as US +1 987 555 124" for phone number
or "Prosessing for 5 seconds..." on a slow POST

simple idea for the crayon design
as a visual communication of brand, though, this may be too distinctive
highly usable, but look underdeveloped, retro, rudimentary, less than current or professional

inputs and buttons look a lot alike, buttons have text in them, buttons are solid
dashed always means not valid, solid always means valid
dashed box means blank or that's not an email address
dashed button means you haven't gotten this form submittable yet
the accent color (pink, not gray) means that thing has the focus

and then all you have to figure out is what the Submitting... animation is for buttons
ideas include
the dots of the button jiggle slightly
there's a regular spinner in front of the text
the ellipsis grows and blinks (do this in addition to things; or maybe this is really all you need)
the button text changes from Submit to Submitting... (did this)
there's a striped or arrowed or sprinkley background to the button, which lazily drifts to the right (you like this)

in all this, also note that firefox dashes look horrible because they're not all the same width
how do their dots look?

ok, if you were deciding right now, you'd
use dashes, even though firefox's are bad; most people will be on chrome
inputs are open, buttons are filled
pink is focused, gray is blurred
solid is valid or clickable, dashed is not
submitting animation is changing the word to "ing" and adding "..." which blinks rapidly, and grows quickly, before resetting

and this is all the animatino you need as you're building this thing so there's never a wait more than a second
ok, yeah, this meets your crayon requirement
is really simple, both visually, and to code

maybe you can code your own inputs and buttons easily
but they look too kindergarten, too Yoshi's Wolly World
and for that reason you bring in a look from a vue tailwind component library

or maybe you just bring in the library to get the mobile-style checkbox ((x) ) that thing

oh, can you set the placeholder text in one font and color (diatype, gray)
and the text the user types in another (noto sans mono, black)
is that easy, or does that involve changing the style of the contained text if the contents are blank or not?





















